---
isOriginal: true
icon: ruler
category:
  - Meepo
  - Template
---

# B3.Syntax Summary

In scenarios where templates are used, it is particularly desirable that the `template syntax`
does not destroy the syntax of the `target file` and that the two coexist without interference.

For example, when generating java with velocity, I hope the template can be checked and highlighted
in both velocity and java syntax. when generating html, the template should be able to preview
directly in the browser without breaking the html syntax.

* `template syntax` - syntax of template engine, such as FreeMarker, Velocity.
* `target syntax` -  aka. `native syntax`, syntax of the target file, such as java, html.
* `meepo syntax` - simple markup directives that use the comments of the target syntax to translate the template.
* All text order is left-to-right, right-to-left language is not supported.

The directive is made by `comment` of the `native syntax` and the replacement is processed
line by line to output the `underlay template (backend)`.

The processing of the `native syntax` is divided into two processes, `parse` and `merge`,
and the lookup in parsing depends on regular expressions. When merging, except for `RNA`,
it is output directly, and the effectiveness is equal to `StringBuilder.append`.

There is no complex `flow control` and `execute function` in RNA,
so `parsing` once and the subsequent `merging` is very efficient.

* Without `RNA`, equivalent to a static string for idempotent operations, merge only once, used directly afterwards
* `RNA` relies on an `execution engine`, equivalent to `Map` + `StringBuilder` except for dynamic language
* `java` execution engine, dynamically compiled to bytecode, equal to native java class after first compilation
* `StringBuilder` pre-calculates the length to avoid expansion copying in the process

## B3.1.Template Features

There are some basic concepts and conventions in Meepo syntax, as follows,

* `blank` - one `0x20` or `0x09`, i.e. space or `\t`
* `alphanum` - `[a-zA-z0-9]`, letters and numbers, case-sensitive
* `native comment` - comments of native language, e.g., `//`, `/*` and `*/`
* `directive` - special annotation in Meepo, such as a prefix
* `DNA` - Defined Native Annotation
* `RNA` - Runnable Native Annotation
* `? +*` - `[0,1]`, `[1,∞)`, `[0,∞)`, respectively
* `directive line` - directive line is only parsed by `Meepo` and invisible in merge
* `line` - refers to `[^\n]\n` or `[^\n]$` format

For simplicity, the `native comment` + `blank` before the `directive`
is omitted in the following,

* `HI-MEEPO` Hi! Meepo, define `native comment` for subsequent parsing
* `DNA:SET` Set replacement, define a substitution and its scope
* `DNA:END` End effect, stop acting when or where
* `DNA:BKB` Effect Immunity, the region before `END` is not parsed
* `DNA:RAW` Native raw string, after execution, output the raw string behind it
* `DNA:SON` Sub-template, used as a component to import other templates during parsing
* `RNA:PUT` Put variable, execute the `execute body` and store the result in the environment
* `RNA:USE` Use variable, use the built-in or `PUT`ed variable in environment
* `RNA:RUN` Execute every time, executes `function body` every time, such as counter
* `RNA:WHEN` Conditional execution, combined into if-elseif-else logic blocks
* `RNA:EACH` Loop execution, loop in an array or collection
* `RNA:ELSE` Else condition, the else branch for `WHEN` and `EACH`
* `RNA:DONE` Stop executing, ends the scope of `WHEN` and `EACH`

Always use `\n` as `line terminators` to break line, even if `\r\n` in window is processed as `\n`.
In the single line comment style that ends with`\n`, the`\n` is considered as
a syntax terminator, and will not be output in the merge.

Some RegRxp background knowledge is required, as Java's RegExp is used to parse the template.

* In searching, `.^$?+*{}()[]\|` is always misused, no need to escape some chars in `[]`
* In replacement, `\` is mainly used as a `back reference`,
  and some of the `()` combinations have special meanings.

The regular compile options are `UNIX_LINES` and `MULTILINE`, set by the `embedded flag`,

* `(?idmsuxU-idmsuxU)` Nothing, but turns match `flags` on/off
* `(?idmsux-idmsux:X)` X, as a non-capturing group with the given `flags` on/off
* i Pattern.CASE_INSENSITIVE Not case-sensitive, default off
* d Pattern.UNIX_LINES Only `\n` as `line terminators`, default on
* m Pattern.MULTILINE `^` and `$` will match `line terminators`, default on
* s Pattern.DOTTAL `.` match `line terminators`, default off
* u Pattern.UNICODE_CASE Unicode-aware case folding, default off
* x Pattern.COMMENTS whitespace and comments in pattern, default off
* U Pattern.UNICODE_CHARACTER_CLASS, default off

## B3.2.HI-MEEPO Hi! Meepo

Syntax: `comment head` `blank`+ `HI-MEEPO` `!`? `blank`+ `comment tail`?

Define `comment` and identify this file as the `native` file that  `Meepo` will parse.

* `comment head` - The first part of a single or multi comment, the previous non-`blank` string
* `HI-MEEPO` - The strange name (hi meepo) is to avoid repetition and escape
* `!` - The `!` preserves the `blank` before and after the directive, explained later
* `comment tail` - The end of multi-line comment, the latter non-`blank` string

`Hi! Meepo` must be on a separate line,  and using `blank` can improve the readability.
Similar to using `DELIMITER` in sql to  define the terminator, for example,

* java - `// HI-MEEPO`, `//` is comment
* java - `/* HI-MEEPO */`, `/*` and `*/` are comment
* sql -  `-- HI-MEEPO`, `--` is comment
* bash -  `# HI-MEEPO`, `#` is comment
* html - `<!-- HI-MEEPO -->`, `<!--` and `-->` are comment

Note: that the `comment head` can have repeated letters,
and Meepo only handles the repetition of the same character, for example,

* `/*` - `/***** DNA:RAW`, invalid, nothing to do
* `//` - `////// DNA:RAW`, valid, handle the repeats
* `#` - `##### DNA:RAW`, valid, handle the repeats

For the following text (DNA and RNA) parsing, there are 2 types of parsing,
line parsing and block parsing, rules as follows,

* `HI-MEEPO` is always a line parser and must occupy a separate line.
* `single line comment` style Meepo is parsed line by line.
* `Multi-line comment` style Meepo is read across lines and parsed by block.
* Parsing is not always done line by line, so`^` and `$` are not always at
  the beginning and end of a line in the regular matching.

`HI-MEEPO!` and `HI-MEEPO` handle the first `blank` of the directive line
according to the following rules,

* Without `!` and the whole line directive will ignore its line in the output,
  i.e. the first `\n` after the directive line.
* With `!`, only the directive between the head and tail of the Meepo is processed,
  and the blanks before and after are preserved.
* `DNA:RAW` is special, the `!` has no effect on it,
  it keeps its outside  and removes the first blank inside it.
* In `@<!--_DNA:RAW_SUPER_-->@`, `@` and `_` denote reserved and removed blanks, respectively.

In subsequent examples, `// HI-MEEPO` is used as an example, but omitted.

## B3.3.Factory DNA, Static Replacement

DNA is like a factory director that defines replacement directives for efficient static text replacement at parse time.

## B3.4.DNA:SET Setting Replacement

Syntax: `DNA:SET` `blank`+ `delim` `find` `delim` `repl` `delim` `effect`?

Replaces the pattern matching string within a specified scope or times.

* `delim` - `delimiter`, the 1st non-(`blank`, `!`, `alphanum`) 1-2byte char, such as `/`
* `find` - RexExp pattern (without `delim`), refer to `backreference` if grouping exists
* `find` is empty, this `SET` is ignored.
* `repl` - `replace`, string (without `delim`), refer to `backreference` if grouping exists
* `repl` is empty, it means delete, i.e. replace with empty
* `effect` - The number of times to take effect, i.e. when/where to stop, not `blank`

The `backreference` refers to the case where there is `()` in `find` or the `\1` in`repl`.
This affects the delimiter of the find/replace string, and also avoid writing complex
expressions with the following convention rules.

* If there is no group in `find`, use group(0), i.e., match all.
* If `find` has group, take the first `(`, i.e. group(1) content.
* If `((A)(B(C))`, count `(` in the order from left to right.
  - group(1) - ((A)(B(C)))
  - group(2) - (A)
  - group(3) - (B(C))
  - group(4) - (C)

* `times`, values separated by `,` or closed range with `-`, e.g. `1-3,15`.
* `named`, infinite times that can be terminated by `END`.

```js
// DNA:SET /false/{{user.male}}/
var isMale = false;
/* Replace only false in above line with the variable user.male. the output is :
var isMale = {{user.male}};
*/
```

## B3.5.DNA:END End Effect

Syntax: `DNA:END` (`blank`+ `effect`)+

End the scope of `effect`s created by directives, such as the named scope of `SET`.

```js
// DNA:SET /1010100/{{id}}/id
// DNA:SET /"(VAR)"/{{desc}}/1
// DNA:SET /VAR/{{info}}/2
SUPER(1010100, "ConstantEnumTemplate", "VAR", "VAR")
// DNA:END id
/* Defines named id, desc's group(1), info's 2 matches. the output is :
SUPER({{id}}, "ConstantEnumTemplate", "{{desc}}", "{{info}}")
*/
```

## B3.6.DNA:BKB Effect Immunity

Syntax: `DNA:BKB` `blank`+ `effect`

Define a `named` global effect immunity scope  that can be ended by `END`,
and the text and directive within it will not be processed.

* text - any text that is not Meepo directive
* directive - treated as text except for the END which corresponds to the current BKB.
* There can only be one BKB currently at a time.

```js
// DNA:BKB KING
// DNA:SET /"(VAR)"/desc/1
SUPER(1010100, "ConstantEnumTemplate", "VAR", "VAR")
// DNA:END KING
/* ignore the SET directive, the output is :
// DNA:SET /"(VAR)"/desc/1
SUPER(1010100, "ConstantEnumTemplate", "VAR", "VAR")
*/
```

## B3.7.DNA:RAW Native Raw String

Syntax: `DNA:RAW` `blank`+ `raw string`

Define a `template` with comment syntax to compensate for cases where the `native`
syntax is not supported. The use of single-line comment is simple and clear.
and the use of multi-line comment to keep only the content between head and tail.

The effect is to remove the `comment head`, `DNA:RAW`, `comment tail` and the `blank` in them.

```js
/* The following 2 lines have the same output i.e. `// DNA:RAW ` */
SUPER(1010100, "ConstantEnumTemplate", "VAR", "VAR")
// DNA:RAW SUPER(1010100, "ConstantEnumTemplate", "VAR", "VAR")
```

## B3.8.DNA:SON Sub-Template

Syntax: `DNA:SON` `blank`+ `path`

Reads the resource in UTF8 from path and expands its contents at the current position,
and then parse them all. The path can contain a protocol, classpath by default,
only the following protocols are supported.

* `http://`,`https://`, read by GET request
* `file://`,`/`, read from file system
* `classpath:`, read from the classloader, Note no `//` here
* Starting with `/` or `.` means the relative path to the host template, but is not recommended.

Note: the son templates must include `HI-MEEPO` separately, which is a static parsing in the
separate context and later merged into the current parent template.

## B3.9.Workshop RNA, Dynamic Execution

RNA is like a workshop manager, defining execution directives,
calling the `execution engine` at merge time, and using its result as a replacement.

* An `execution engine` can execute `func` (function body) of multiple `types`, where one type is referred to as an `engine`.
* The name of `engines` must be `alphanum`, case sensitive, e.g. `js`.
* Engine whose name endwith `!` such as `js!`, will ignore errors ,continue execution, returns `null`.
* If the execution returns `null`, `empty string` is used to merge the template.

The default `engine` in RNA is `map`. Users can register other engines with RnaManager, described later.

* `map` - `session` level, use `func` as key, go value from `environment`, if not, return the key.
* `raw` - `nothing` level, return the `func` directly as a string without expanding the escapes.

Meepo uses multi-line block parsing for multi-line comments,
so the `func` naturally supports multi-line to improve readability.

## B3.A.RNA:PUT Put Variable

Syntax: `RNA:PUT` `blank`+ `engine`? `delim` `var` `delim` `func` `delim`

Specify the `engine` to execute the `func` and store the `function` or `execution result`
in the `environment` (refers map engine) for other `RNA` to use.

* `environment` is the Meepo context and some scripting engine's context
* `engine` see engine description for details
* `delim` is the same as `SET`.
* `var` is the variable stored into the context, not the native literal.
* `func` is executed by a specific engine, such as spring, then it can be executed a SpEL.
* if `var` or `func` is empty, nothing is executed.

```js
// DNA:PUT os/who/basename $(pwd)/
/* Take the output of `basename $(pwd)` and store it in context with `who` as the key */
```

## B3.B.RNA:USE Use Variable

Syntax: `RNA:USE` `blank`+ `delim` `find` `delim` `var` `delim` `effect`?

`RNA` version of `SET`, the difference is the `var` value is get from the `map` engine,
not the literal replacement of the underlying template.
The rules for getting variable(e.g., navigation class objects, pipeline handling functions)
are described in the map engine section.

Automatic `multi-paragraph indentation` support is performed when merging `vars`,
depending on the type of `var value` satisfying the follows,

* `find string` starts with indented whitespace.
* `var value` is an Array or Collection and its size is greater than 1.

Indenting more than 2 elements will align with the 1st element. sometimes lines may be unintelligent and look bad. eg.

* Indented object, no `\n` ending, no line break, like zebra stripes
* Unindented object, contains `\n`, with line break, look interlaced

```js
// DNA:USE /meepo/user.home/
var userHome = "meepo";
/* get System.getProperty("user.home"). the output is:
var userHome = "/home/trydofor";
*/
```

## B3.C.RNA:RUN Execute Every Time

Syntax: `RNA:RUN` `blank`+ `engine`? `delim` `find` `delim` `func` `delim` `effect`?

combine `PUT` and `USE`,  support indentation, the difference are,

* `find`, empty means execute only, no replace
* `func`, use execution result directly, no store to `var`
* execute every time, eg. counter function, increment on each call, no cache.

```js
// DNA:RUN os/rand/echo $RANDOM/1-3
var userName = "meepo-rand";
var userPass = "rand-rand";
/* get random number each time and print. the output is:
var userName = "meepo-12599";
var userPass = "16345-31415";
*/
```

## B3.D.RNA:WHEN Conditional Execution

Syntax: `RNA:WHEN` `blank`+ `engine`? `delim` `bool` `delim` `func` `delim` `group`

Multiple `WHEN` can be combined into `if`-`else if`-`else` logic blocks.

* `bool` - Must be `y|yes|n|no|not`, indicating `true` or `false`
* `func` - Evaluate the execution result to bool
* `group` - Must be `alphanum`, group `ELSE` and `DONE` in the logic scope

Evaluate the following cases get `false`,  evaluate `not` to `false` get `true`

* boolean `false`
* object `null`
* number `NaN` or between positive/negative `0.000000001` (9 digits)
* `empty` string, zero size of Array/Collection/Map

```html
<!-- RNA:WHEN /yes/it.rem0/bg -->
<li value="code">rem0-name</li>
<!-- RNA:WHEN /not/it.rem1/bg -->
<li value="code">rem2-name</li>
<!-- RNA:ELSE bg -->
<li value="code">rem1-name</li>
<!-- RNA:DONE bg -->
```

Equivalent to the `if(a){}else if(!b){}else{}` in following js pseudocode

```js
if (it.rem0){
    console.log('<li value="code">rem0-name</li>')
} else if (!it.rem1){
    console.log('<li value="code">rem2-name</li>')
} else {
    console.log('<li value="code">rem1-name</li>')
}
```

## B3.E.RNA:EACH Loop Execution

Syntax: `RNA:EACH` `blank`+ `engine`? `delim` `step` `delim` `func` `delim` `group`

Using `group` to refer to the current element in the loop. if the `group` is named `it`,
then `it.x` represents the `x` attribute of the element.

* `step` - must be `-?[0-9]+`, the order and step, negative is `reverse` looping
* `func` - engine execution result, must be array/collection, otherwise equal to `RNA:PUT`
* `group` - Must be `alphanum`, group `ELSE` and `DONE` in the logic scope, and refer to current element

Depending on the data type, different loop processing is performed, null or empty
is skipped and can be executed within `ELSE`.

* Array - Class.isArray()
* `Collection<E>` - instance of Collection
* Other types, do not loop
* Reverse-order loop, not (RandomAccess or ReverseIterator) are converted to toArray

In the loop, the following built-in properties indicate the current status, given the `group` named `it`, then

* `it` - The current element reference, should avoid the name conflict to pollute the context
* to reference the `x` attribute of the current element use`it.x`
* `it._count` - Built-in variable, current loop counter, 1-base, 0 means not looped
* `it._total` - Built-in variable, total number of elements in the `group`
* `it._first` - Built-in variable, whether the first element
* `it._last` - Built-in variable, whether the last element
* These built-in variables are not removed at the end of the loop and can be used outside the loop.

Since Meepo is a professional `non-professional` template engine, this `for-each` is very low-level,

* Limited support for object navigation, separated by `.`, see the `map` engine for details.
* The element in the loop  supports only `Map<String,? >` and JavaBean's Getter.
* No scope isolation, the `group` name can override the variables within the context.

```html
<!-- RNA:EACH map/2/items/it -->
<!-- RNA:USE /name/it.name/* -->
<li value="code">rem0-name</li>
<!-- RNA:ELSE it -->
<li>no item</li>
<!-- RNA:DONE it -->
<!-- RNA:USE /total/it._total/ -->
<!-- RNA:USE /count/it._count/ -->
<div>result=count/total</div>
```

Equivalent to the `for(;;)` or `for-in` loop logic of the following js pseudo-code,
depending on the `collection` type and the `step` positive or negative.

```js
let step=2 // Loop steps, negative numbers in reverse order, must not 0
let index=0 // Temporary variables in the process
let it = null, count=0, total=items.length; // built-in variable
for(it in items){
    if(index++ % step !== 0) continue // Control step
    count++
    console.log('<li value="code">rem0-'+it.name+'</li>')
}
if(count === 0){
    console.log('<li>no item</li>')
}
console.log('<div>result='+count+'/'+total+'</div>')
```

## B3.F.RNA:ELSE Else Condition

Syntax: `RNA:ELSE` `blank`+  `group`

group by `group` and handle `else` branch on `WHEN` or `EACH` with the same group.

* If `WHEN`, it means none of the `WHEN` is executed
* If `EACH`, it means the loop body is never executed (e.g. no elements)
* `EACH-ELSE` has the same semantics as `pebble`, is different from python's `for-else`

## B3.G.RNA:DONE Stop Executing

Syntax: `RNA:DONE` (`blank`+  `group`)+

group by `group` to stop executing of one or more `WHEN` and `EACH` with the same group.

## B3.H.Placeholder Template

Simplified template to perform only expression-level replacement or function handling,
rather than the full Meepo template syntax. For example, placeholders in configuration files
usually require simple replacement or string conversion.

To use it, just customize the `boundary` around the variable, `{{` and `}}` by default.

Define `escaping` char can escape the `boundary`, default is `empty`, no escaping.
The escaping has the following characteristics, using `\` for example,

* Available only for `boundary`, e.g. `\{{` and `\}}` to `{{` and `}}`
* Escape itself before the boundary, such as `\\{{var}}` to `\` + `var` value
* Placeholder, paired from left to right, use the closest pairs, non-matching boundary is treated as plain text.
* Other cases are invalid, such as `\n`
* Nested Placeholders is not supported
* Variable names cannot contain spaces, or they will be resolved as a function

## B3.I.Limitation of Using RNA

Since the template generates a syntax tree during static parsing, the conditionals and loop execution
in `RNA` do not recognize the runtime structure.

The following template intent is, to use the first truthy value between GitHash and ModTime by pattern `hash`.
Intuitively, this format is more consistent with procedure-oriented conditional assignment,
but causes a crossover scope error during syntax checking.

```text
// HI-MEEPO
// RNA:WHEN /yes/GitHash/bg
//   RNA:USE /hash/GitHash/
// RNA:ELSE bg
//   RNA:USE /hash/ModTime/
// RNA:DONE bg
project hash
```

The crossover error occurs because the pattern `hash` has are two `RNA:USE` using it,
In static parsing, the runtime value is not available, so it can not determine
the correct the syntax tree to  belong to,  change it as follows

```text
// HI-MEEPO
// RNA:USE /hash/GitHash/
// RNA:USE /time/ModTime/

// RNA:WHEN /yes/GitHash/bg
project hash
// RNA:ELSE bg
project time
// RNA:DONE bg
```

Or Use the `fun:see` function to help

```text
// HI-MEEPO
// RNA:USE /hash/fun:see GitHash ModTime/
project hash
```
