---
isOriginal: true
icon: mysql
category:
  - Practice
  - Operation
---

# 9C1.Mysql Dump/Resotre

Apply to mysql 5.7/8.0, native/cloud database. Support mysqldump backup and mysql restore.

## 9C1.1.Things when Backup

Use the wings-mysql-dump.sh to backup and only need wings.dba privileges.
If you use mysqlpump, note that it is `pump` and not `dump`, you need additional privileges.

Do scp, gzip according to the `.tip` file in the dump file.

## 9C1.2.Things when Restore

When using mysqldump's backup, you need to adjust the DEFINER  trigger
`sed -E 's/DEFINER=[^*]+//g'`

When using mysqlpump's backup, you need to pay attention to the original database
name in sql to avoid getting the wrong database.
```sed -E 's/`OLD_DB`/`NEW_DB`/g'```

## 9C1.3.Data Masking

In general, live data must be desensitized, including but not limited to, 

* Password category, such as in dev, simple replacement to avoid leaking or wrong login.
* Privacy category, such as name, ID, address, compliance replacement.
* Communication category, such as email, API address

```sql
UPDATE win_user_authn  SET password ='{noop}DevGr8Ag4in' WHERE id >= 1000;
```

## 9C1.4.Known Issues

The root user of the cloud database, usually without the SHUTDOWN and SUPER privileges, or even more.

### 01.`ERROR 1227: the SUPER privilege`

In Wings, when restoring a trigger with `DEFINER=` in the statement, it will report insufficient privileges.
You must set the privileges of trigger to meet one or all of the following conditions.

* When mysql import, execute the `.tip` in dump, or manually run `sed` replacement
* Server-side `log_bin_trust_function_creators = 1`, asking for SUPER privileges

### 02.`ERROR 1071: max key length is 767`

Server-side setting `innodb_large_prefix = 1`, but some cloud db may disable this option.
You can submit parameter changes via console without rebooting.

The following are the charset, char,byte knowledge.

* UTF-8MB4 - 767/4=191
* UTF-8MB4 - 767/3=255
* Expanded from 767 to 3072 bytes if enabled

### 03.`RELOAD privilege(s) for this`

> Access denied; you need (at least one of) the RELOAD privilege(s) for this operation (1227)

```sql
GRANT RELOAD ON *.* TO 'maintain'@'%';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

### 04.`server that has GTIDs`

> Warning: A partial dump from a server that has GTIDs will by default include the GTIDs of all transactions

```txt
[mysqldump]
set-gtid-purged=OFF
```

### 05.`Unknown table 'column_statistics'`

> Unknown table 'column_statistics' in information_schema (1109)

```txt
[mysqldump]
column-statistics=0
```

### 06.`Row size too large (> 8126)`

> Row size too large (> 8126). Changing some columns to TEXT or BLOB or using ROW_FORMAT=DYNAMIC
> or ROW_FORMAT=COMPRESSED may help. In current row format, BLOB prefix of 768 bytes is stored inline.

```txt
[mysqld]
innodb_strict_mode=0
```

### 07.`Public Key Retrieval is not allowed`

> Public Key Retrieval is not allowed

add `useSSL=false` and `allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true` to

* QueryString of jdbc url, or,
* Driver properties of DBeaver
