---
isOriginal: true
icon: leaf
category:
  - Practice
  - Knowledge
---

# 9B4.Multiple DataSource

Wings uses single data source by default, when there are multiple data sources,
the ideas and considerations of using Jooq.

## 9B4.1.SpringBoot Manually

Features: Manual control, control every operation.

> If you need to use jOOQ with multiple data sources,
> you should create your own DSLContext for each one.
> See JooqAutoConfiguration for more details.
>
> In particular, JooqExceptionTranslator and SpringTransactionProvider
> can be reused to provide similar features to what
> the auto-configuration does with a single DataSource.

According to[Configure jOOQ with Two DataSources](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/3.0.3/reference/htmlsingle/#howto.data-access.configure-jooq-with-multiple-datasources),
Just set multiple DSLContext.

However, you cannot use the default Dao injection, because it uses the @Primary data source by default. operations on data.

* Use DSLContext to manipulate data
* first new Dao, then setConfiguration(dsl.configuration())

## 9B4.2.Jooq Automatically

Features: Batch control via the thread context, CURD type, SQL parameters.

> void start(ExecuteContext ctx);
> Overridable attributes in ExecuteContext:
>
> ExecuteContext.connectionProvider(ConnectionProvider):
> The connection provider used for execution.
> This may be particularly interesting if a Query was de-serialised
> and is thus lacking the underlying connection

Switch datasource at execution time using ExecuteListener, the steps are as follows

* Define the ConnectionProvider for multiple datasources
* Implement ExecuteListener.start(ExecuteContext)
* Set the execution datasource ExecuteContext.connectionProvider()

## 9B4.3.ShardingSphere Automatically

Features: Switch data sources according to the idea of R/W separation.

Automatically switch data at runtime without changing the code, using ShardingSphere configuration.
