---
isOriginal: true
icon: change
category:
  - Practice
  - Upgrade
---

# 9A3.Upgrade 2.7.7.220

Upgraded build 210 to 220, this is the transition version of 3.0, should not stay for a long time.

* boot `2.7` instead of `2.6`, [Release Notes](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Spring-Boot-2.7-Release-Notes)
* Remove javax to jakarta interference, eg. persistence and validation
* rename faceless-jooqgen to faceless-codegen
* add `spring.` prefix to `wings.tiny.*.enabled.`
* cache2k instead of caffeine, cache.nulls split into null-live and null-size
* check [wings notable changelog](./9a0.notable.md)

## 9A3.1.Modify pom.xml

Change version to `2.7.7.220-SNAPSHOT`

```xml
<parent>
    <groupId>pro.fessional</groupId>
    <artifactId>wings</artifactId>
    <version>2.7.7.220-SNAPSHOT</version>
</parent>
```

## 9A3.2.Rework Autogen

JooqGen in wings is configured with javax persistence and validation annotations by default.
In reality, this does nothing but increase the identifiability of the code, but it is involved
in the revolution of javax renaming to jakarta.

All automatically generated code in their respective `/java-gen` src,
which are invoked by `AutogenDependencyTest` in the devs-mvndep module.

### 2a.test00DropAllAndInit()

Initialize the database and prepare the data for subsequent code generation.

### 2b.test01AllTestCode()

Jooq's own tests and examples, including the following,

* test11FacelessJooqTest - faceless-jooq
* test11FacelessShardTest - faceless-shard

### 2c.test01AllMainCode()

The formal dependencies for the Jooq business tables, packaged with the main project, include the following

* test10FacelessAutogen - faceless/enums
* test20WarlockAutogenEnum - warlock/enums
* test20WarlockAutogenAuth - warlock/security
* test21WarlockAutogenJooq - warlock/database
* test31TinyMailAutogenJooq - tiny/mail
* test31TinyTaskAutogenJooq - tiny/task

## 9A3.3.Wingsboot User

Before the operation, commit the workspace and switch to a new branch so that you can control
and cross the timeline. The important point is to regenerate the jooq code, the settings turn off
the interference of namespace changes javax to jakarta

```xml
<jpaAnnotations>false</jpaAnnotations>
<validationAnnotations>false</validationAnnotations>
```

If a dependency problem occurs in the jooq code, you can temporarily add a dependency and
then remove it after a successful redo.

```xml
<!-- javax.persistence -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>jakarta.persistence</groupId>
    <artifactId>jakarta.persistence-api</artifactId>
</dependency>
<!-- javax.validation.constraints -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>jakarta.validation</groupId>
    <artifactId>jakarta.validation-api</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

* if `javax.annotation.Generated` not found, use
  `javax.annotation.processing.Generated` instead.
* if got `*Dao.java` deleted, and `Skipping DAO generation` message,
  please set PrimaryKey to the table.
