---
isOriginal: true
icon: eye
category:
  - Practice
  - Manual
  - Frontend
---

# 9D2.VueAdmin for AdminEnd

The admin side, winx-admin, has a frontend SPA with Vue3+Ts+ElementPlus

* <https://github.com/trydofor/professional-vue-admin-starter>
* <https://gitee.com/trydofor/professional-vue-admin-starter>

Set `debug=true` to get more detailed runtime information.

## 9D2.1.Start Admin

Just start WinxAdminApplication, using memory user and H2 memory database by default.

Login and permission are configed by `mem-user` and `mem-auth` in `wings.warlock.security`.

* `winx-admin@fessional.pro` is the SPA admin login user
* `boot-admin-client` and `boot-admin-server` are spring-boot-admin users
* The default password is `$DING_TALK_TOKEN` environment variable, otherwise
* `!!!YOU_MUST_USE_STRONG_PASSWORD_HERE!!!`

Note that the H2 database is for demo purposes only, and the mysql database is required for all
functions. After starting admin normally, the Simple Api testing can be done through Swagger.
The interface with permission needs to be logged in first.

<http://localhost:8091/swagger-ui/index.html>

## 9D2.2.Monitor and Interface

Start WinxDevopsApplication to manage springboot applications.

Use `boot-admin-server` to login <http://localhost:8093/login>

If login or permission fails, you need to check if the following parameters have been changed.

* spring.boot.admin.server.enabled=true
* wings.warlock.security.login-forward=false
* wings.warlock.security.logout-success-body=

Because wings generates Swagger documents for login with a fake PostMapping, which conflicts
with SpringMvc's RequestMappingInfoHandlerMapping processing mechanism. so  make sure to prepend
AdminControllerHandlerMapping before RequestMappingHandlerMapping.

If there is a login/out url conflict, you can disable the Swagger documentation.

`spring.wings.warlock.enabled.controller-proc`=`false`

## 9D2.3.SPA Admin Site

Clone the latest vue-admin-starter, then enter the project directory and execute the command according to Readme.
Default environment are Node16, pnpm7; main framework are Ts4, Vue3, ElementPlus2, VueI18n9.

Click [ForTest] can enter the demo without login, or with running WinxAdmin backend,
you can login to the demo permissions and other functions.
